
# MICO: Multiplicative Intrinsic Component Optimization

## Intrduction

The Multiplicative Intrinsic Component Optimization (MICO) software implements an algorithm for simultaneous bias field estimation and tissue segmentation [1, 2]. The MICO algorithm estimates the bias field and the true image, which are two multiplicative components of a given MR image. The bias field is approximated by a linear combination of a set of smooth basis functions.

The true image is represented by tissue membership functions and the corresponding true intensity means (TIM). The bias field and the true image are optimized by minimizing an energy function in termsof the combination coefficients in the linear combination of the basis functions, the tissue membership functions, and the corresponding TIMs.

The initial MATLAB implementation of MICO and the development of the method has been in part developed at the Vanderbilt University Institute of Imaging Science [3] under the supervision of John C. Gore.



## Package Overview

### Source Pages

- BasisProject.cmake: Meta-data used by BASIS to configure this package.
- CMakeLists.txt: Root CMake configuration file.
- config/Package: configuration files.
- doc/: Software documentation such as the software manual.
- example/: Example input files.
- include/: Public header files of MICO library.
- src/: Source code files.
- thirdpatry/: Dependency

- AUTHORS.txt A list of the people who contributed to this software.
- README.txtThis readme file.
- COPYING.txt The copyright and license notices.
- INSTALL.txt Build and installation instructions.


### Binary Package

For details on where the built executables and libraries, the auxiliary data,
and the documentation files are installed, please refer to the INSTALL file.


## Licensing

See https://www.med.upenn.edu/sbia/software-agreement.html or COPYING file.


## Installation

See build and installation instructions given in the INSTALL file.


## Documentation

See the software manual for details on the software including a demonstration
of how to apply the software tools provided by this package.

The API documentation generated by Doxygen documents the C++ interface of the
mico library. External C++ code can link directly to this library to make use
of the MICO implementations instead of running the mico command as separate
process. You find the API documentation in the doc/api/ subdirectory of your
installation (if it was build as part of the build and installation, see
instructions in the [INSTALL file](INSTALL.md)).


## References

[1] C. Li, C. Gatenby, L. Wang, and J. C. Gore, "A Robust Parametric Method for Bias 
Field Estimation and Segmentation of MR Images", CVPR 2009

[2] C. Li, F. Li, C. Davatzikos, J. C. Gore, "Multiplicative Intrinsic Component Optimization
for Bias Field Estimation and Tissue Segmengation for MRI", to be submitted

[3] Vanderbilt University Institute of Imaging Science, http://www.vuiis.vanderbilt.edu/
